[WHOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We've got a fascinating
program for you tonight.
Riz Mirza is with us.
A trance channeler, shaman,
author, psychic medium who has
channeled more than
100 spirit guides.
Riz, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>RIZ MIRZA: Thank
you very much, George.
It's a pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: Looking
forward to this.
>>MIRZA: Oh, so am I.
>>NOORY: We have heard, since
you came on "Coast to Coast,"
so many people fascinated
with what you do.
How did you get
involved in this?
>>MIRZA: Oh, I think I am
one of those stories that
isn't that I came
from-- my grandmother
was a psychic medium,
or my mom was psychic.
My background, I
was born in Harlem.
Raised in the Bronx
in New York City.
>>NOORY: Tough kid.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
At least, I thought so.
And I was spending most
of my time feeling scared
of being alone in
the dark, or feeling
people's emotions around me.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: And my parents thought
I was just maybe a little bit
off.
And maybe I was.
But I was always tuned
into something else.
I always felt there
was something more.
>>NOORY: So Riz, tell me about
your first psychic experience.
What happened to you?
>>MIRZA: The background is,
is that me being from New York
City--
I was born in Harlem.
Raised in the Bronx.
My parents were
immigrants from India.
Just hard-working
people that did not have
a psychic background at all.
>>NOORY: Middle
class upbringing?
>>MIRZA: Middle
class upbringing.
And I was a very shy kid.
I wasn't a kid that
was going around
too much on the playground
or hanging out on the street
corners like all my friends.
My world was very internal.
So I spent a lot of
time with my mom.
My mom takes me to one of
her girlfriend's houses
somewhere in Queens, New York.
>>NOORY: How old are you?
>>MIRZA: I'm seven years old.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>MIRZA: And I'm just that
kid that's really bored.
There's no other
kids to play with.
[NOORY CHUCKLES]
They're sitting and
having chai together,
and I'm sitting somewhere
like this, just bored.
And I remember
looking at this couch.
Now this couch was just
your ordinary typical couch
in the 1970s.
And out of nowhere
I blurted out,
an old man died on that couch.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MIRZA: I don't
know why I said it.
>>NOORY: Were you
scared when you said it?
>>MIRZA: No.
I had no emotion.
And this is what's interesting--
>>NOORY: You just said it?
>>MIRZA: I just said it,
because there was nothing else.
Now, there's a reason,
because my mind was blank.
So nowadays when
I teach people how
to tap into their
own psychic senses,
they often think you've got
to sit there and go, oh,
spirit guides, come in.
Come in!
Bring me the energy from
the other dimensions
so that I can hear
your messages!
>>NOORY: Oh, Holy One!
>>MIRZA: Oh, Holy One!
I don't come from there.
I come from letting
go completely.
And what I find, all my
travels over the world
when I've received feedback
from people after they
do my meditations that I
teach them, in my meditations
I teach them, do it
while you're driving.
Do it while you're
doing something else
so you're not so focused.
You're not pushing energy
to receive messages.
You're in a state
of open-mindedness.
George-- and I'm sure
you've been through this--
you ever remember when you
were in school studying for--
whatever.
A test you had the next day.
And you're writing on
this loose leaf paper.
And it sucks, whatever,
as you're writing.
You crumple it and you throw it.
Like this.
You throw it this way.
And it lands in the wastebasket.
>>NOORY: Or somewhere close.
>>MIRZA: Right.
But it has happened
where it landed.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: Without you looking.
And then you try to do it again.
This time you're looking.
And rarely do you get it in.
>>NOORY: And you can't hit it.
>>MIRZA: And you can't hit it.
So it is that zen
state of mind where
you don't have too much
emotional investment in it.
You're open.
So that's what happened
when I was seven.
So the woman comes over and
she kneels down to me and says,
what did you say?
My mom is shooting me a look,
like, what is wrong with you?
Are you-- have you
lost your mind?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
My kid, what's
happened to him, right?
>>MIRZA: Right.
And it embarrassed her.
But the woman said it's true.
Her father did pass
away on that couch.
And she said, is
there anything else?
And I said he likes
drinking tea over there.
So she said that when
he had passed away,
he had come out of the bedroom,
sat in that exact same spot
that I had said, and
was drinking tea.
Unfortunately, he had a
heart attack and passed away.
>>NOORY: And he just died.
Wow.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Now when you saw him
mentally, was he dead already?
>>MIRZA: So what I saw is
what I call an imprint.
It's the only way
I can describe it.
I didn't see him the way some
mediums actually see a spirit
in front of them, almost 3D.
Mine was more a complete
intuitive feeling
that washed over me suddenly.
It was a voice that
said this to me.
I don't know whose voice it was.
I was completely new to this.
All I can tell you
was that I felt it.
I knew it.
And it was almost
as if-- you know
if I were to get
up from this couch,
there might be an
impression of where I sat.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
For a while.
>>MIRZA: For a while.
It was kind of like that.
>>NOORY: Your wife,
Oriah, we met her back
in the dressing room.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But tell us.
There's a special thing
about that for you.
>>MIRZA: Well, I always
feel that-- we talk
about what twin flames are.
Soul mates and twin flames,
and these terminologies that
are used.
But Oriah is also an empath--
an intuitive empath.
So she feels the energy
and emotions of people.
We're kind of like a psychic
paranormal husband and wife
team in L.A.
>>NOORY: Huh.
That makes it work, huh?
>>MIRZA: It does.
And it makes it work out there.
But then when you're
spending time together,
you know what the other
person's going to do.
>>NOORY: Was there a story
about a son in Japan?
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
Because when we met, we met at a
mutual friend's birthday party.
And I kind of didn't
want to be there.
And she was sitting next to me.
And so I just give a reading.
If I'm bored, I'm just
going to give a reading
to the person next to me.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MIRZA: And she said, well--
she told me the number
of children she had.
She had five kids.
And I said, is there a boy?
She said, yes.
And I said, I have to
ask you a weird question.
Is he Japanese?
>>NOORY: Out of
the blue, you say?
>>MIRZA: Out of the blue.
And she's not East
Asian at all, my wife.
And she says, no.
But that's very
strange you say that.
He is obsessed with Japan.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MIRZA: He was, at the
time, I think 15 or 16,
learning Japanese on his own.
Actually now is a
master origami artist.
And he's a regular white
kid, you might say.
So what I pick up
on is the past life.
When I met him, I knew.
>>NOORY: Ah-ha.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
So there's-- it comes through.
Things that you're interested
in, countries or places you're
drawn to without having an
explanation for yourself
as to why.
Not because you're looking to
see that particular tourist
site there, but you
know that your feet
have to be on that land.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>MIRZA: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: How do you connect
with your own intuition?
Do you do anything special?
>>MIRZA: You know, I've said
this, that I think a lot of--
you mean if I'm
reading for myself?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: Oh, I can't do it.
>>NOORY: You can't do yourself.
>>MIRZA: Because a
massage therapist
can't massage their own back.
>>NOORY: All right, how
about for other people?
>>MIRZA: For other people how I
tap in is I have to get quiet.
There is a very--
there is no magic
word, George, to get
your psychic intuition going.
It's really no words.
It's a place of being quiet.
I think it's a place where
even musicians go to.
They have to drop in.
And then they're able to play.
An artist has to drop in,
and then she's able to paint.
For me as a medium,
I have to drop in.
And that simply means is that
I have to become so loose--
and when I trance
channel-- a lot of people
think when I trance channel,
because the guides come in
with this big energy.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MIRZA: Like Red Eagle, who
is a Native American/tree,
I like to say.
He's this mix of a tree and
maybe some Indigenous tribal
person.
He always makes this joke that--
I said, why did you pick
to channel through me?
And he goes, so people get two
Indians for the price of one.
>>NOORY: I love it.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MIRZA: So he has this big
energy that comes through.
And people think, oh, you
have to really brace yourself
for this big spirit
guide to come through.
But really I have to be
very much in my feminine--
I have to be really gentle.
I have to be really quiet.
And to get people
to do that means--
for me to teach
them how to connect
to their own
intuition-- it means
they have to be
able to feel safe.
And that's really hard
for a lot of people to do.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
So that's where I come from when
I'm doing my psychic readings.
It just comes to me, man.
I don't even know sometimes
why they make me say something.
I'll never forget, one
of my first readings--
I was sitting giving
a reading to someone,
and out of nowhere I started
thinking about frozen Twinkies.
Do you remember when we used
to freeze Twinkies as kids?
>>NOORY: Yeah, yeah.
>>MIRZA: And I'm thinking,
Riz, get yourself focused.
Stop thinking about it.
>>NOORY: Focus. stop thinking
about frozen Twinkies.
>>MIRZA: I just took a chance.
I was a baby psychic then.
And I just said--
the woman's sister
had passed away.
And I said, I feel
like I'm supposed
to talk about frozen Twinkies.
Well, that was it!
She burst into tears.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God!
>>MIRZA: Because this was the
favorite moment for the two
sisters was when they
would freeze the Twinkies.
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>MIRZA: Right?
And they would
write their names--
>>NOORY: And there's no
way you would know that!
>>MIRZA: There's no
way I would know that.
There's no way I
could know that.
So it's not mind reading.
It is simply a mystery.
I always say, after all
my classes, my workshops--
15 years of this--
listen, guys.
It's the mystery.
Keep the magic.
Keep some mystery.
Even though what
we're doing when
we have this intuitive
ability to sense--
it actually is a type of--
I call it an inner technology.
>>NOORY: Riz, you performed
live psychic readings
on Melrose Avenue
in Los Angeles.
And we have it on tape.
>>MIRZA: What's
mom's first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Rita.
>>MIRZA: So-- Rita?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: So on Rita's side
there is a Charles energy
coming through.
Also I have to talk about--
diabetes in this
side of the family.
Who's that?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad.
>>MIRZA: Your dad.
OK.
Thank you.
And where is he?
>>AUDIENCE: Dead.
>>MIRZA: OK.
So he's going to
be coming through.
So dad has passed on.
As soon as we talked about
mom, I felt diabetes.
But that's dad.
That usually means that mom
is our kind of connector
energetically-- if
that makes sense--
to dad.
There's also a Ronald
connected to him.
So Ron-- Ronnie.
Who's that?
>>AUDIENCE: Father-in-law.
>>MIRZA: Father-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MIRZA: Thank you.
OK.
And is he passed also?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
But he's, like, up there in age.
>>MIRZA: OK.
Thank you.
Your dad is actually mentioning
this person right now.
And that usually means
that eventually it's
also going to be his
time to cross over.
As you said, he's
up there in age.
And your dad--
I know this may not
make sense to you--
because we think of in terms
of on earth, like, who are we
friends with.
Right?
Oh, I know that person.
But sometimes in a reading
what we're tuning into
is the other side.
And on the other side
they see everything
and they're connected.
So there'll be someone on
the father's side connected
to someone on the mother's
side, even though they're not
blood related and
maybe never even met.
And that's what's
so interesting.
Who in that family was gearing
towards law enforcement?
>>AUDIENCE: He was a cop.
>>MIRZA: He was a cop.
Thank you.
He said law enforcement.
So now you know it's him, OK.
He was a warrior of one kind.
And that warrior blood
runs through you, brother.
It runs through you.
Law enforcement is
here to help peace.
Keep the peace.
And you're the same.
You're here to help keep
the peace on this earth.
Just by being you.
And don't be afraid
to let this power out.
Remember like in
Marvel Comics, Iron Man
had that light coming from
the center of his chest.
That's how I see you.
That light comes from
the center of your chest.
And you are here to do it.
And you're going to
do it, because you
have no other choice.
You don't have a choice.
The other choice is that you
cave in and sink into yourself,
and you never quite get there.
You never bust out with
all of your abilities
and your talents.
And so dad is coming through
to let you know about that.
So he dedicated himself
to helping the people.
And you just need to dedicate
yourself to helping the people.
Once we do that, you're
great no matter what happens.
Because your greatness
comes from this.
That's the only place
greatness comes from.
[SNIFFLING]
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>MIRZA: So thank you for--
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>MIRZA: --for that.
Thank you.
Wow.
>>NOORY: Your
accuracy is uncanny.
Uncanny.
>>MIRZA: I'm grateful.
>>NOORY: And it shows how
emotional some of these people
get when you tell
them these things.
>>MIRZA: When you're
recovering from grief when
you lose someone,
you can go to therapy
for five years, 10 years.
Just keep going to therapy and--
I'm not here to knock therapy.
But when you get a mediumship
reading it's in five minutes.
You say a name and you say
the person's profession.
And they're here to
give this message.
That's undeniable.
That's a magical experience.
And that heals you so quickly.
Because you get
this confirmation
that they're with you.
>>NOORY: Who's there
on the other side
telling you this information?
Was that, for example,
his dead father?
>>MIRZA: So this is
the way I hear it.
Sometimes I'll feel--
I used to say a middleman
between me and the person.
I think that's an angel
or a spirit guide.
And that can happen
50% of the time.
Other times I feel
them-- it's almost
like they're typing a
message in front of my face.
A mediumship reading is--
here's what happens.
When someone dies-- let's say
that we're alive, and here's
them, and here's us.
We love them.
We're connected.
When they die, their vibration
invariably goes up spiritually.
It doesn't matter
what belief system.
If you're religious,
or you're new age,
everyone believes that there's
an ascension that happens--
>>NOORY: It goes up.
>>MIRZA: OK?
They go up.
What happens to us?
We go down.
Because we're sad.
We're grieving.
>>NOORY: We're grieving.
That's right.
>>MIRZA: So look at
all this space now.
They're on FM 107,
and we are on 89.
So a medium is in the middle.
The medium has no grief because
we don't see death the way
other people do.
We didn't know this person.
So we're not grieving.
This person is.
So we see them as more alive.
We can feel them still.
Our vibrations is still up here.
>>NOORY: They act alive to you.
>>MIRZA: They act alive to me.
They don't ever say
things like, I miss you.
I've never
encountered that once.
They see us.
They only want us to know that
we're going to see them again.
They only want us to
know they're not mad.
I've never encountered
one loved one
who was angry that you weren't
there, like, when he died.
It doesn't happen that way.
It only feels bad for us.
So as a medium, what I want to
do with people when I give them
readings, is give them
this accurate information,
but also give them
something to work
with after I leave
that inspires them,
that sparks them,
to be who they are.
>>NOORY: Why are
you such a receptor
for this kind of information?
>>MIRZA: Oh.
>>NOORY: You're like an antenna.
>>MIRZA: I'm a crazy mix of
being really shy and also
an extrovert.
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: You're shy?
>>MIRZA: I am.
>>NOORY: I haven't seen
that side of you yet.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MIRZA: There's a reason why.
Because I'm out here.
My shyness is where I'm
connected to my vulnerability,
especially when I was a kid.
I do think there's a gift.
I think that there's
some kids who
are born with a perfect
ear for the piano.
Why them?
It's because it's an ability.
It's a sense we're born with.
>>NOORY: Now in that video,
you weren't channeling
at that moment, were you.
>>MIRZA: No.
>>NOORY: That's different.
>>MIRZA: That's me.
>>NOORY: How does that work?
>>MIRZA: I'm the
psychic receiving.
>>NOORY: How does that work?
>>MIRZA: So channeling--
remember this one thing.
This word channel.
What does it mean?
We watch TV channels.
[DIAL CLICKING SOUND]
Tuning into frequencies
flying through the air.
They're flying through the air.
There's TV and radio stations
that are sending frequencies
through the air.
We are such an amazing race of
beings that we figured out how
to make a picture invisible,
how to make sound silent--
because that's what's happening
when you're watching TV--
and we figured out how to
throw it through the air--
>>NOORY: And show
up someplace else.
>>MIRZA: And show
up somewhere else.
And turn that invisible
picture into a visible picture.
Take that silent sound and
reproduce it exactly the way
that it was sent out.
So that's-- is that technology?
Is that magic?
It's a magical technology.
It's a technical magic.
How did we make sound silent?
See, that's where I start with.
Because if we're going to
actually consider the notion
that somebody is
channeling spirit guides,
what if when I channel--
and you see me channel, and
a different voice comes out,
a different accent comes out,
a different manner of being
comes out.
What if 100 years
from now there's
a camera that's pointed
at me like this one.
But this camera is so advanced.
How much more
advanced is the iPhone
than 100 years ago from
whatever phone was there?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MIRZA: OK.
So there's no comparison.
>>NOORY: So what will it
be 100 years from now?
>>MIRZA: It might
be a camera that
can see a spirit energy
coming into the channeler.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>MIRZA: Why not?
Can you imagine trying to
explain to Abraham Lincoln
the iPhone?
Now he was probably the most
intelligent man of his time.
So if--
>>NOORY: And he wouldn't get it.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
What if you and I, George,
went back in time just dressed
the way we are?
We're in clothes
that, in some way,
were the clothes of back then.
A suit and shirt.
And you go back into
Lincoln's office.
We appear.
Time travelers.
And we say, Mr. Lincoln,
pleased to meet you.
We want to show you something.
And we show him the iPhone.
Now he might
recognize it as glass.
Made of some iron,
he might think.
And then we say, would you like
to see the Great Wall of China
right now?
Would you like to see the
inside of a kangaroo growing
in his mother's pouch?
>>NOORY: And he'd say,
what are you talking about?
>>MIRZA: Would you like to see
a sperm fertilizing the egg?
What are you talking about?
In that little box?
Yes.
Here.
And we show it to him.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: We pop on YouTube.
And then we say--
he says, how--
I know there's no little
kangaroo in there.
I know the Great
Wall of China is not
in this little box
of metal and glass.
And then you and I have to
tell him, well, Mr. Lincoln.
This little box is
talking to another box
that's flying around the Earth.
>>NOORY: He wouldn't understand.
You have channeled over 100
spirit entities in your career.
Who are some of them?
What are they?
>>MIRZA: Some of them have
been very famous names.
I've channeled Nikola Tesla.
>>NOORY: Wow!
>>MIRZA: Yes.
I've channeled some composers.
I have channeled
Charles Dickens.
I've channeled Shakespeare.
I've channeled Charlie Chaplin.
Some of these are in my book.
I have a book
called "The 9 Keys."
And each chapter--
I'd like to say I wrote
it, but I didn't write it.
I channeled each
chapter while in trance.
We set a recorder.
I go into trance.
The guide comes through.
We record it.
Then we just transcribe
it and publish it.
There's no editing.
And that's the way it goes.
So Charlie Chaplin came through
and gave a whole chapter
on what humor is.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>MIRZA: Some spirit guides
have names we've never heard of.
>>NOORY: Phineas Crumby, right?
>>MIRZA: Quimby.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
As a matter of fact,
we've got you on tape
with Phineas and Red Eagle
that you just mentioned.
>>MIRZA: Really?
>>NOORY: Let's look.
>>MIRZA: Now we'll begin an om.
You will join me.
Just match the note
as best as you can.
And then after that,
I'll say goodbye
and they will say hello.
(IN VAGUELY BRITISH
ACCENT) My name is Phineas.
There are some who feel
that to gain perspective,
you must be in another position.
That you must end somewhere else
to understand where you are.
Then by some stretch of your
mental or spiritual capacity,
you are able to see yourself
or others from a perspective
to give yourself a deeper or
wider understanding of what
is occurring.
(IN VAGUELY NATIVE AMERICAN
ACCENT) I like to talk.
I come here tonight.
We come.
We talk about vision.
You need an equal vision.
You can see from far
away a little mouse.
The eagle does not
strain her eyes.
She has surrendered
to vision itself.
Meaning everything is accepted.
And nothing rejected.
Nothing is rejected at all.
Everything that's in
the vision is accepted.
That clarity.
That precision.
You say, I want that.
I want to see better.
I want to communicate
with my guides this year.
I want to know it.
How do you know your guides
are not communicating
to you all the time?
You say, well, I can't feel it.
Alright, simple.
To hear you have to quiet down.
If you want to hear, you want to
listen, you have to be silent.
Same letters in those two words.
Silent.
Listen.
I actually have never seen that.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>MIRZA: I used to not be
able to watch myself channel.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>MIRZA: It is.
It's a very strange phenomenon
that one lives with.
>>NOORY: Do you get
tired after your channel?
>>MIRZA: I used to, but
actually now it energizes me.
You have to be--
it's a stamina you have to have.
I've channeled-- five and a
half hours I've been in trance.
And remember, this is like
going to sleep for me.
It's a very active dream state.
And I'll still sleep
that same night.
I can channel for five
hours, and then go home,
and then sleep
another eight hours.
>>NOORY: It regenerates you.
>>MIRZA: It regenerates you.
>>NOORY: Do you have
psychic abilities too?
>>MIRZA: I do.
Like on that video that I
have on my YouTube channel,
which is called "The Magical
Life With Riz Mirza."
I did that because I
wanted people to see really
authentic people I'm reading.
People that would normally
not even get psychic readings.
I would just pick
a night and go out
into the streets of L.A.
and just talk to them.
And I like to show
my whole process,
because there are some psychics
on television that will only
show you the most perfect
answer that they gave,
and leave out 20 things
that they missed.
I don't do that.
If something doesn't
connect with someone--
>>NOORY: You lay it right out.
>>MIRZA: I lay it out.
Because, number one, it may
make sense to them later.
I've had people send me
emails after I give them
readings where they say, I
loved everything you said.
There was so much
that was spot on.
These two things
didn't ring a bell.
But a year later,
two years later--
>>NOORY: Something happens.
>>MIRZA: Something happens
that I said out of left field
that they were
completely bewildered by.
Two years later
I'll get the email,
and say, Riz, you don't
remember me but, hey--
>>NOORY: You said this,
and this happened.
>>MIRZA: Yeah, I am,
like, in clown school now.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
Red Eagle and what you've
learned from him.
>>MIRZA: Red Eagle.
What do I say about him?
He has spoken to thousands
and thousands of people.
And I-- remember something.
I didn't come from a
background of being raised
by psychics or channelers.
I was just doing my
thing, playing music,
screaming on stage in
bands, watching WWF.
People say, what are
your psychic influences?
I name the heavy metal
bands I was into,
and I name WWF wrestlers.
>>NOORY: You were a heavy
metal musician, weren't you?
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
I still am, actually.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MIRZA: You can't--
music can never leave you.
>>NOORY: It's in there.
>>MIRZA: That's my
first channel, though!
That's where I opened up to
music, is where-- frequency.
That's what psychics
and mediums do.
They're students and
masters of frequency.
Just like these cameras are
picking up our frequency
because the light is
reflecting off of us.
Turn the lights off,
there's no more frequency
to be picked up
by these cameras.
So spirit guides are around us.
It doesn't matter what
culture you come from.
It does not matter what
religious background
or tribal culture.
There is always a
reference to that:
each human being is not alone.
So they are-- what
you can call them
spirit guides, or ancestors,
or the universe, or awareness.
The watchers, people call them.
Maybe it's the ETs
if that's what they--
>>NOORY: What makes these
entities, Riz, come to you?
Or do you summon them?
Like Red Eagle?
>>MIRZA: Great question.
For some reason when
I sit down to channel
at the circle of light, Red
Eagle has never disappointed.
He's always shown
up to give messages.
>>NOORY: He's ready to go.
>>MIRZA: He's
always ready to go.
Phineas shows up.
What I've learned
through just meditation
and receiving the
information, is
that I had some past
life connection to them.
Now Red Eagle, he comes
across-- you see, well, it's--
oh, he has a bit of a
Native American in him.
But there's no such thing as an
ethnicity with a spirit guide.
There's no such thing as an
A spirit guide is like us.
Our soul is made of light.
We have all been
other ethnicities.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MIRZA: I looked like
you, maybe, last time.
Maybe last lifetime
you looked like me.
Or we were women
that looked Asian.
So they tend to choose the soul.
The spirit guide chooses
the avatar through which,
maybe, people will listen more.
Phineas seems to have
a British accent.
I don't know.
Maybe it's because we tend
to think of British people
and the perfection of their
pronunciation and enunciation
of English as very learned.
Red Eagle is very earthy,
so he comes through
in his tribal form.
But maybe his name
is Elizabeth and he
was a queen in some past life.
>>NOORY: Huh.
You never know.
>>MIRZA: You don't know.
We don't know, you see.
But I say, even if you don't
believe in spirit guides
or channeling, if you're
hearing a message--
whether it's through me or
it's through your horoscope,
or written on a fortune cookie--
if you let it land on you,
maybe it can help you.
>>NOORY: Riz, during a
channeling session, generally
how long does it go?
>>MIRZA: Generally about two
and a half to three hours.
So people come to
see me twice a week.
Yeah.
Two and a half to three hours.
Everyone gets a
message at my circles.
Most channelings are just--
there are wisdom circles and
channelers give the messages.
But I give personal messages
to each person who comes.
>>NOORY: Can you
channel at will?
>>MIRZA: Yes.
>>NOORY: Can we
do something now?
>>MIRZA: We sure can.
>>NOORY: Now who
will we channel?
Or do you know that?
>>MIRZA: I don't.
But I have a feeling
it's Phineas.
>>NOORY: All right.
Get into your mode, and
then we'll just chat.
>>MIRZA: It might be Red Eagle.
We don't know.
I'll see you later.
(IN VAGUELY BRITISH
ACCENT) I'm Phineas.
>>NOORY: Phineas, it's
good to talk to you again.
>>MIRZA: It is a pleasure
for us to be here.
>>NOORY: Do you remember
talking to me on the radio show?
>>MIRZA: Indeed.
>>NOORY: Tell us a little
bit more about you.
When did you live?
>>MIRZA: Incarnations
are infinite.
When one is in the
in-between space,
as you may refer to where
spirit guides reside--
and residing, of course,
is used by the terminology
in your own English, for all
of us are connected as one.
As far as incarnations
are concerned,
there were certain
lifetimes where perhaps you
were familiar with
the name of Phineas.
Though, as to my
own recollection,
you must understand
that there are
bits and pieces of that
particular expression,
the identity, that remain
known to me and some
that is not known to me.
As Phineas, I was a descendant
of a teacher named Eleazar
who, in certain times,
was a teacher returning
in various incarnations
as an ordinary person
that you might describe
living an ordinary life.
But the lifetimes that
were important for us
were the ones where
we were sharing
this information of the creation
and the nature of reality.
And so as you refer to
myself as Mr. Quimby,
I'm simply known as Phineas.
And I have experienced
various wardrobes or costumes
in my collection that I
don to connect with you.
>>NOORY: I would think that
you are in the 1800s garb
right about now.
Is that a pretty accurate guess?
>>MIRZA: The garb that we
are wearing is one of energy.
Though, through that intention,
we may create any visual
that is appropriate
for the transmission.
If we were to connect
with a person who
is of a certain culture,
their own cultural references
would be projected
and understood
by us, and therefore, in a
meditation or a dream state,
a spirit guide may appear.
And that guide will be
adorned or wearing clothes
you might say, in
your terminology, that
would be appropriate so that
the message is understood.
For example, you would not wish
to see an archangel dressed
as a clown.
Though a child may
need the spirit guide
to show up as a clown,
for they regard the clown
as a loving and safe being.
They may not understand
a person in a robe.
Do you follow?
>>NOORY: I do.
Are you familiar with our
technology of this era
that I'm in?
>>MIRZA: Indeed.
>>NOORY: Does it fascinate you?
>>MIRZA: What is fascinating?
>>NOORY: Well, we
have television sets.
We have phones.
I can send a friend
of mine who may
be living 2,000
miles away a picture
that they will receive on
their telephone instantly.
>>MIRZA: You see,
your technology
represents a larger expression
of your abilities within you.
Your computers represent the
calculations and processes
that are currently
within your own mind.
For example, you are able
to recite poetry and verses
while perhaps even doing
an equation of mathematics.
You are also at the
same time-- currently,
you are able to take in
the sound of the voice that
is coming through
the channel, as well
as the lighting from
your left and right,
as well as the feeling of
your feet in your shoes.
You see, you are multitasking.
You are a processor.
Your technology represents
your inner technology.
And so to be able to
send a picture or words,
look at the very fascinating
phenomenon of twins.
They are able to-- being
separated miles apart--
send each other-- or
whether it is consciously,
or unconsciously, one
twin may feel the emotions
that the other is feeling.
There have been many
cases where one twin
on the opposite
side of the world
may feel a sudden
pain in their body.
And their twin has just
injured the same spot
at the very same time in
another part of the world.
One may say that this
is a transmission.
And one may say this is
automatic connection.
>>NOORY: Phineas, why do you
channel through Riz Mirza?
What is so special about him
that allows you to do this?
>>MIRZA: Most
transmissions that occur
to the potency of certain
full trance channels,
as you have begun to
call this technology.
You see, if you
regard this channeling
as a magical gift
that is wonderful,
but also to see it
as a technology--
because you do have an
antenna inside of you.
For example, you are able
to focus at this moment
while the channel is speaking
with the voice of Phineas.
You are also able to hear
the tone in the room.
And if you decided that you were
going to listen to his voice,
but at the same time raise
the volume of the background
of the studio, you would be
able to do so, wouldn't you?
Through the power
of your intention.
You would also be able to think
of your bedroom right now.
As you are looking upon Riz,
think of your own bedroom
at the moment.
So you are able to do
very different things
simultaneously.
Now, the technology that you
have within you, the capacity,
let us say, to sing a song.
Some are more
musically inclined.
The natural gifts
that Riz possesses,
or channels like him, is
his ability to surrender.
You see, surrender is your key
for a very powerful expression
of who you are.
You do not need to
change who you are.
And the thrust of our
transmission and messages
to all of you who listen is so
that you surrender to the truth
and to the magic
that is within you.
As you do that, as
you are removing
these layers from yourself
by surrendering to them,
by removing any notions of blame
or victimhood or frustration
with the world, and
you begin to let go,
then that which is
within you begins
to surface and be
seen by others.
But especially by you.
And that is what makes
a fulfilling life.
An expression
while you are here.
>>NOORY: Phineas,
can you kind of
describe for us the
area that you're in now?
>>MIRZA: Let us then
speak of dimensions,
for it is very common
now for people to speak,
that they went to
another dimension.
And that multidimensions,
that dimensions
are over there, or across a
vast distance of time and space.
But you see, dimensions
are here and now.
We are not in a
separate space than you.
You see, there are
particles in this air
that you are unable to see.
There are sounds that are above
the frequency of your ear.
Your dog will be able to hear
frequencies that you cannot,
correct?
>>NOORY: Correct.
>>MIRZA: Now what if we were
to tell you that using your own
logic, and your own
observation of scientific fact,
that your dog can hear
frequencies that you cannot?
Let us use that logic.
Then it is possible that there
are frequencies of light you
also cannot see.
>>NOORY: Phineas,
is there anything
that you wish you
would have done
when you were a physical being?
>>MIRZA: It is a fair question.
Looking back upon my studies
in the particular lifetime
that you are referring to,
where a certain type of thought
was encouraged by my earthly
self, to be kinder to myself,
to know that the knowledge
that was to come through
was for the people, and to not
try to control it too much.
To doubt myself.
And as I emerged--
that meant, as I died and
went into my higher self.
My more expansive reality--
this realization occurred.
We suggest that you do not wait
that long to do it yourselves.
>>NOORY: Phineas, can I chat
for a moment with Red Eagle?
>>MIRZA: A moment, please.
(IN VAGUELY NATIVE AMERICAN
ACCENT) Hey, hello.
>>NOORY: Red Eagle?
>>MIRZA: Yep.
>>NOORY: Hello, there.
>>MIRZA: Hello.
>>NOORY: Tell me about you.
Who is Red Eagle?
>>MIRZA: We are you.
That means that we are not
surrendered to some idea
that we are separate.
We are one with you.
You will only know this
when you awaken to this.
But we are the guide to Riz.
We know him.
We are with him.
>>NOORY: Did you select him
because of his abilities?
>>MIRZA: His ability
is to love himself.
His ability is to love others.
The ability is that where
do we see one is open.
And he needs it.
So if he needs it,
we go there, too.
For the teachings are for him.
The teachings are for others.
But I like his body.
It is the right size for
Red Eagle to come through.
>>NOORY: He seems
like a nice guy.
>>MIRZA: Yep.
>>NOORY: And so do you.
>>MIRZA: (CHUCKLING) Good.
To be called a guy, it
is good to hear that.
Because that means
you understand
that it come from love.
And it is that we are
the friends of you.
We walk with you.
All of you.
>>NOORY: Will there be peace
on this planet, Red Eagle?
>>MIRZA: There is more peace
on the planet than war.
Everywhere there is
more peace than war.
But it is what you will learn.
All the teachers,
all the healers
have told you that you must
be at peace with yourself.
You cannot see others
as separate from you.
Look at what is
happening in the prisons.
We talk for a moment
about prisons.
Imagine if you were to
call them something else.
Let us say that you
begin to understand
that the way you
talk about the world
will reflect the way
you see the world.
You see prisons are full
of very hurt people.
Do you agree, or not?
>>NOORY: True.
>>MIRZA: It is unprocessed--
>>NOORY: And people
who have hurt.
>>MIRZA: They have hurt
because they are hurt.
You do not have happy
people hurting other people.
So what you see is
a holding center
for people with
unprocessed trauma.
Imagine!
You had to use a lot
of words to say that.
It is not a prison.
It is a holding center for
people with unprocessed trauma.
But you may then
have more compassion
to understand how you people
are creating your reality.
The peace that you seek--
many teachers have
told you, when
you realize that love is
the only real power, that
is the solution all the time.
You want your plant
to grow, more love.
You want your children to grow?
More love.
You want anything
to grow, more love.
Once you have more love,
you will feed everybody.
>>NOORY: Do you interact
with other entities
in the afterlife?
>>MIRZA: Yes.
We have many, you may
call them, friends.
As a spirit guide, it is
a tough job and easy job.
Because easy job
because it is love.
Tough job because it is love.
Love is everything, is it not?
So we are assigned
to certain people.
You have guides, too.
You have guides that work
with you, that guide you.
That you sometimes think
they're there to fix everything.
They're not there
to fix everything.
They are there to
whisper into your ear.
Go a little to the left, George.
Go little to the right.
This way.
Think of that person.
Call them.
We help you to understand.
We do not give you a fish.
We give you a fishing pole.
Teach you how to fish.
>>NOORY: Is my reality real?
>>MIRZA: The only reality
that you're going to know,
George, no matter
what you see around
you-- we take you
from this chair,
put you on another planet.
And you look at everybody else,
maybe you will look different.
But the only reality will be
how you feel inside of yourself.
Because tonight, George,
you will go to sleep.
You will dream.
In the middle of your
dream, you're not
going to remember this studio.
You're not going to
think it is not real.
Wherever it is you are in
your dream, that will be real.
How many times you
have woken up and said,
I cannot believe
that was a dream?
I could feel pain.
I could feel pleasure.
I knew this person.
I knew that person.
Every time you wake up, you
say, I cannot believe it was
a dream.
You know how many times
you have done that?
Many, many times.
>>NOORY: Many times.
>>MIRZA: Many times.
And all the people watching
this, they have done it.
And they are going to fall
for this again tonight.
They are going to do it
again when they go to sleep.
So where is the reality?
Now the logic you have is
that this is real because, oh!
It is the same studio.
Oh, I am George again.
Oh, he is that guy.
He is that guy.
That is your only
evidence that this--
for you it is evidence
that this is real,
and that was just a dream.
But when you die, this
whole life will be a dream.
Because now you will
be somewhere else.
That is why we teach you
the nature of reality.
We teach you that reality
is that you are constantly
creating it with how you feel.
What difference does it make
if you're sitting in prison--
and there are many who sit
in prison and feel very free,
George.
While there are people
walking around here and--
free?
They don't feel free.
>>NOORY: That's a good point.
Are we unique in this universe?
>>MIRZA: You are very
unique in this universe.
And we will tell you why.
You strive.
The people on the planet strive.
You create ideas to live up to
them, because inside of you,
just like the laws, inside
of you you feel what is good
and just and right.
So you create things.
And then you reach up into them.
Like your laws,
like your beliefs.
You want to rise to something.
And that is why other forces,
other energies, other entities
you may call them,
see this planet,
and they see you
evolving very fast.
You evolve even
socially very fast.
Look at the differences from
100, 200 years ago, to today.
Now war is going to
be there because you
have a kind of contrast
power struggle on Earth.
Earth is a school.
The school is so that you
understand what is real power.
>>NOORY: Riz-- can
we have Riz back?
>>MIRZA: Yep.
Be well.
>>NOORY: How do you feel?
>>MIRZA: (IN NORMAL VOICE)
Well, you know, doing--
(CHUCKLES).
Give me a moment.
I feel good.
It happens very fast.
>>NOORY: I dealt with
Phineas and Red Eagle.
>>MIRZA: Yeah, I knew.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MIRZA: I knew.
You know, when you watch people
channel like that, and you go,
what is going on?
Once you get past how they talk,
and you listen to the message--
see, I always tell people,
listen to the message.
Don't get distracted by things.
Even in life-- you
twist your ankle.
Maybe there's a
message in it for you.
Stop walking so fast.
Start paying attention.
But you get distracted
by the pain.
We get distracted even
when channelers channel
and we don't know where
this is coming from.
And I say, don't
worry about that.
Why don't you just listen
to what the message is?
That's what it's for anyway.
>>NOORY: Fascinating work.
>>MIRZA: Red Eagle.
You feel him, though.
>>NOORY: Where do you go when
they are channeling into you?
>>MIRZA: Jersey.
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: In your mind?
>>MIRZA: No.
Where do I go?
I'll tell you, sometimes I'm
in a space that looks like--
I feel like I'm sitting
up in a tree looking down.
Like just now when we did it, I
was kind of up high back there.
>>NOORY: Just watching?
>>MIRZA: And
looking down I could
see kind of the shapes
of the tops of our heads.
And I'm not allowed to talk.
And other times I
don't remember at all.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MIRZA: It's
literally like a nap.
I think Edgar Cayce
was like that, right?
>>NOORY: He was.
>>MIRZA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It exhausted him.
What message do you have, Riz,
for people watching this show?
>>MIRZA: The message
that I have--
and it has always been this--
that self-mastery
is not when you
learn how to master a skill.
That you're a great
tennis player,
or you're a great accountant,
and you're a master.
No.
You've mastered that skill.
But that's not self-mastery.
What I want people
to know is that,
if you're interested
in self-mastery,
in my teachings I say
self-mastery is when you are
able to-- without moving from
where you are sitting right now
as you're watching
or listening to us--
that you're able to shift from
feeling bad to feeling good
pretty quickly.
That you're able to shift
your energy, your mood,
your emotional
state inside of you.
Because that is what's going to
tarnish or embellish everything
around you.
What is this lens?
Because your entire life is your
reaction and your perspective
on everything.
>>NOORY: How do people
get ahold of you?
>>MIRZA: RizMirza.com
>>NOORY: Spell that out for us.
>>MIRZA: R-I-Z-M-I-R-Z-A .com.
My Instagram is
Psychic_Riz_the_Wiz
with underscores underneath it.
And I'm always posting
really fun stuff
and how to get ahold of me.
>>NOORY: Stay
healthy, my friend.
>>MIRZA: You too.
>>NOORY: And thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MIRZA: It's a pleasure.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: It's amazing
to talk to someone
who actually channels
someone who has departed
in such a coherent way.
Maybe one day Riz
will channel me.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]